src/app/(content)/shapes/page.mdx, before:

import Blocks from "@/components/blocks";
import Link from "next/link";

# Shape Elements

<a
  className="codepenLink"
  href={"https://codepen.io/aokorodu/pen/bGZWyaN"}
  target="_blank"
>
  {"codepen practice page"}
</a>

## intro: shape elements

The shape elements provide the foundational visual building blocks of an SVG.

![shapes.svg](/shapes.svg)

In this section we'll discuss the basic shape elements and their attributes.

## svg element

Before we learn about the shape elements, let's create a basic SVG in our <a href={"https://codepen.io/aokorodu/pen/bGZWyaN"} target="\_blank">{"starter codepen practice page"}</a>. We'll start with the **\<svg\>** element, which is the parent container for all our shape elements.

<Blocks>{`<svg>
</svg>`}</Blocks>

Now we’ll define the **viewport**, which is just the **width** and **height** of the svg on the page that contains it. If the viewport is not defined, the svg will scale to fit whatever contains it.

```
width="<width>" height="<height>"
```

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500">
</svg>`}</Blocks>

There are other attributes that we can add to our svg element, like **viewbox** and **namespace**, but this is all we need for now. We'll learn about some advanced svg attributes in our <a href={"/syntax"} target="\_blank">{"syntax"}</a> chapter.

### presentation attributes

All shapes have presentation attributes that are used to define how they look. There are two types of presentation attributes:

**Geometric Attributes**:
These define the **position, size, and shape** of the shape element. Examples include x, y, width, height, cx, cy, r, etc. Each shape has it's own specific set of geometric attributes.

**"Look and Feel"**: Attributes:
These define the visual style of the SVG elements, such as color, stroke, fill, opacity, etc. These attributes are universal and can be used with any shape element.

<br />

In this section we'll focus on the **geometric attributes** for each shape. A more
detailed discussion of the universal "look and feel" presentation attributes can
be found <Link href={"/presentation-attributes"}>{"here"} </Link>.

<br />

---

### circle

- **cx, cy**: the x and y coordinates of the center of the circle
- **r**: radius

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <circle cx="250" cy="250" r="200" fill="orange" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_circle.png)

---

### ellipse

- **cx, cy**: the x and y coordinates of the center of the ellipse
- **rx**: the radius of the ellipse along the x axis
- **ry**: the radius of the ellipse along the y axis

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <ellipse cx="250" cy="250" rx="200" ry="100" fill="orange" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_ellipse.png](/shapes_ellipse.png)

---

### rectangle

- **x, y**: the x and y coordinates of the upper left corner of the rectangle
- **width**: width
- **height**: height

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <rect x="50" y="50" width="400" height="400" fill="orange"></rect>
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_rect.png)

---

### rectangle (rounded)

- **x, y**: the x and y coordinates of the upper left hand cornder of the rectangle
- **width**: width
- **height**: height
- **rx, ry**: the radius of the circle that defines the corners

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <rect
    x="50"
    y="50"
    width="400"
    height="400"
    rx="20"
    ry="20"
    fill="orange"
  ></rect>
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_round_rect.png)

---

### line

- **x1, y1**: the x and y coordinates of the starting point
- **x2, y2**: the x and y coordinates of the end point

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <line x1="100" y1="100" x2="400" y2="400" stroke="black" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_line.png)

---

### polyline

- **points**: the x and y coordinates for all the points that define the line

<Blocks caption="fill: none">{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <polyline
    points="60,60 90,390 140,70 190,414 240,70 290,350 340,60 390,265 440,80"
    stroke="black"
    fill="none"
  />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_polyline.png)

<Blocks caption="fill: orange">{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <polyline
    points="60,60 90,390 140,70 190,414 240,70 290,350 340,60 390,265 440,80"
    stroke="black"
    fill="orange"
  />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_polyline_filled.png)

---

### polygon

- **points**: the x and y coordinates for all the points that define the line
- **stroke**: the stroke color of the line

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <polygon
    points="60,60 240,215 440,60 440,340 340,440 140,430 60,340"
    fill="none"
    stroke="black"
  />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_polygon.png)

---

### image

The image element allows you to add bitmap images - pngs or jpegs - to your svg.

- **href**: the image path
- **x** horizontal position
- **y** vertical position
- **width**: width
- **height**: height

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <image 
      href="https://plus.unsplash.com/premium_vector-1724876723896..." 
      x="50" y="50" height="400" width="400" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <image
    href="https://plus.unsplash.com/premium_vector-1724876723896-43f7b29c8e70?q=80&w=3560&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D"
    x="50"
    y="50"
    height="400"
    width="400"
  />
</svg>

### \*note

#### The image element also has a **preserveAspectRatio** attribute that may affect it's appearance. Please refer to the <Link href={"/aspect-ratio"}>{"aspect ratio"}</Link> lesson for more information.

---

### path

The path is the most powerful shape element, allowing for the most visual complexity. We’ll be exploring the path element in detail in the <Link href={"/paths"}>{"next section"}</Link>.

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_path.png)

---

### stacking order

Shapes are stacked in order of appearance, with later elements on top.

<Blocks caption="circle is stacked above rect">{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <rect x="200" y="100" width="200" height="200" fill="lightgrey"></rect>
  <circle cx="200" cy="300" r="100" fill="orange" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_stacking.png)

Commit message:

some changes to graphics and wording

src/app/(content)/shapes/page.mdx, after:

import Blocks from "@/components/blocks";
import Link from "next/link";

# Shape Elements

<a
  className="codepenLink"
  href={"https://codepen.io/aokorodu/pen/bGZWyaN"}
  target="_blank"
>
  {"codepen practice page"}
</a>

## intro: shape elements

The shape elements provide the foundational visual building blocks of an SVG. You can think of the shape elements as the raw material that we're going to use to create our images, graphics, animations, and interactive objects

![shapes.svg](/shapes.svg)

In this section we'll discuss the basic shape elements and their attributes.

## svg element

Before we learn about the shape elements, let's create a basic SVG in our <a href={"https://codepen.io/aokorodu/pen/bGZWyaN"} target="\_blank">{"starter codepen practice page"}</a>. We'll start with the **\<svg\>** element, which is the parent container for all our shape elements.

<Blocks>{`<svg>
</svg>`}</Blocks>

Now we’ll define the **viewport**, which is just the **width** and **height** of the svg on the page that contains it.

```
width="<width>" height="<height>"
```

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500">
</svg>`}</Blocks>

There are other attributes that we can add to our svg element, like **viewbox** and **namespace**, but this is all we need for now. We'll learn about some advanced svg attributes in our <a href={"/syntax"} target="\_blank">{"syntax"}</a> chapter.

### shape attributes

All shapes have a number of attributes that are used to define how they look. These attributes fall into one of two catagories:

**Geometric Attributes**:
These define the **position, size, and shape** of the element. So an attribute that sets the x and y coordinates, or the width and height would be considered a geometric attribute. Each shape has it's own specific set of geometric attributes.

**Presentation Attributes**:
These define the visual style of the SVG elements, such as color, stroke, fill, opacity, etc. These attributes are universal and can be used with any shape element.

<br />

In this section we'll focus on the **geometric attributes** for each shape. A more
detailed discussion of the presentation attributes can
be found <Link href={"/presentation-attributes"}>{"in the presentation attributes chapter"} </Link>.

<br />

---

### circle

- **cx, cy**: the x and y coordinates of the center of the circle
- **r**: radius

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <circle cx="250" cy="250" r="200" fill="orange" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_circle.png](/shapes_circle.png)

---

### ellipse

- **cx, cy**: the x and y coordinates of the center of the ellipse
- **rx**: the radius of the ellipse along the x axis
- **ry**: the radius of the ellipse along the y axis

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <ellipse cx="250" cy="250" rx="200" ry="100" fill="orange" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_ellipse.png](/shapes_ellipse.png)

---

### rectangle

- **x, y**: the x and y coordinates of the upper left corner of the rectangle
- **width**: width
- **height**: height

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <rect x="50" y="50" width="400" height="400" fill="orange"></rect>
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_rect.png)

---

### rectangle (rounded)

- **x, y**: the x and y coordinates of the upper left hand cornder of the rectangle
- **width**: width
- **height**: height
- **rx, ry**: the radius of the circle that defines the corners

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <rect
    x="50"
    y="50"
    width="400"
    height="400"
    rx="20"
    ry="20"
    fill="orange"
  ></rect>
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_round_rect.png)

---

### line

- **x1, y1**: the x and y coordinates of the starting point
- **x2, y2**: the x and y coordinates of the end point

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <line x1="100" y1="100" x2="400" y2="400" stroke="black" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_line.png)

---

### polyline

- **points**: the x and y coordinates for all the points that define the line

<Blocks caption="fill: none">{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <polyline
    points="60,60 90,390 140,70 190,414 240,70 290,350 340,60 390,265 440,80"
    stroke="black"
    fill="none"
  />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_polyline.png)

<Blocks caption="fill: orange">{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <polyline
    points="60,60 90,390 140,70 190,414 240,70 290,350 340,60 390,265 440,80"
    stroke="black"
    fill="orange"
  />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_polyline_filled.png)

---

### polygon

- **points**: the x and y coordinates for all the points that define the line
- **stroke**: the stroke color of the line

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <polygon
    points="60,60 240,215 440,60 440,340 340,440 140,430 60,340"
    fill="none"
    stroke="black"
  />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_polygon.png)

---

### image

The image element allows you to add bitmap images - pngs or jpegs - to your svg.

- **href**: the image path
- **x** horizontal position
- **y** vertical position
- **width**: width
- **height**: height

<Blocks>{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <image 
      href="https://plus.unsplash.com/premium_vector-1724876723896..." 
      x="50" y="50" height="400" width="400" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <image
    href="https://plus.unsplash.com/premium_vector-1724876723896-43f7b29c8e70?q=80&w=3560&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D"
    x="50"
    y="50"
    height="400"
    width="400"
  />
</svg>

### \*note

#### The image element also has a **preserveAspectRatio** attribute that may affect it's appearance. Please refer to the <Link href={"/aspect-ratio"}>{"aspect ratio"}</Link> lesson for more information.

---

### path

The path is the most powerful shape element, allowing for the most visual complexity. We’ll be exploring the path element in detail in the <Link href={"/paths"}>{"next section"}</Link>.

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_path.png)

---

### stacking order

Shapes are stacked in order of appearance, with later elements on top.

<Blocks caption="circle is stacked above rect">{`<svg width="500" height="500" viewbox="0 0 500 500">
  <rect x="200" y="100" width="200" height="200" fill="lightgrey"></rect>
  <circle cx="200" cy="300" r="100" fill="orange" />
</svg>`}</Blocks>

![shapes_basics.png](/shapes_stacking.png)
